# ATCC-Stock-By-Gene
This code uses publicly available DepMap data and the python-based web browser tool Selenium to identify a list of commercially available cell lines that express your gene(s) of interest!

If you're working on a project that will require the purchase and utilization of commercial cancer cell lines based on gene expression, you might be frustrated with either the slow UI of DepMap's Cell Line Selector or wish to select cell lines based on more criteria than are available for filtering on DepMap.

For example, let's say you're trying to identify cell lines that express all 6 of your genes of interest, although unfortunately, none of the cell lines express all 6 highly. What my program, unlike DepMap's Cell Line Selector, can do is filter by OR conditions, not just AND conditions. That is, if you wanted to find a cell line that expressed Genes 1-4 and EITHER 5 or 6 highly, you could do that using my program by inputting genes 1-4 as the first list input, and inputting genes 5 and 6 as the second list input. This makes it easier to identify the smallest number of cell lines that express all of your genes of interest, saving money!

Second, when I was doing this for my own work, I realized that any cell line NOT sold on ATCC.org was either a) held in a european or asian repository, and thus logistically difficult to ship internationally to my lab, or b) only available through one or two non-ATCC websites for an exorbitant price. Searching for each cell line in the ATCC database to figure out if it's sold there or not was tedious and boring, so I then utilized the web browser tool Selenium to take the list of cell lines that express your genes of interest, search them on ATCC's website, and return the link to the product along with the line's name. Yay!! 

Overall, this turns an arduous task of a few hours (using DepMap's UI and manually searching each line on ATCC) into a task of a few minutes. 
You do need to install Selenium, and download both the OmicsExpressionProteinCodingGenes data set from DepMap (LINK: https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=allData&releasename=DepMap+Public+24Q4&filename=OmicsExpressionProteinCodingGenesTPMLogp1.csv) and the file that matches assigned ID's to the actual cell line names (LINK: https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=allData&releasename=DepMap%20Public%2024Q4&filename=Model.csv). Rename the first file TPM.csv and the second file Model.csv, and save them in the same folder. 

To identify whether a gene is "expressed highly", I use the threshold established by LaFlamme et al in their paper "A consensus platform for antibody characterization" (doi: https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.pex-2607/v1). They state, "The target RNA expression value of 2.5 log2(transcripts per million (TPM)+1) has emerged as a minimal threshold that is likely to yield detectable protein levels suitable for antibody screening". Thus, a log2 value of 2.5 is my threshold. 
